# FEW 2.3 - Lesson 9

# Redux

This class will cover Redux which is an application state management tool. Application represents the data that your app manages and displays. Often it is shared across mulitple views and can be updated in complex ways. 

Redux is a JS library based on the Flux pattern that 

<!-- > -->

## Review: Redux

<!-- > -->

What do you remember about the first discussion of redux? 

<!-- > -->

What is an action? 

<!-- > -->

What is a reducer?

<!-- > -->

What is a the store?

<!-- > -->

```JS
const export NEW_TODO = 'NEW_TODO'

export const newTodo = (item) => {
	// What goes here?
}
```

<!-- > -->

```JS
import  { NEW_TODO } from '../actions'

function todoReducer(state = [], action) {
	// What goes here? 
}
```

<!-- > -->

## Learning Objectives

1. Define Reference and value types
2. Identify references and values in JavaScript
3. Use destructuring to create shallow copy of objects and arrays

<!-- > -->

## Redux Part 2

<!-- > -->

redux requires some setup and an understanding of how it operates. The best to develop an understanding is practice!

<!-- > -->

Make a store with:

```JS
import { createStore } from 'redux'
import reducers from './reducers'

const store = createStore(reducers)
```

Making a store requires just a couple lines of code. The store requires some reducers. You'll need to define these and import them. 

`src/reducers/index.js`
```JS
import { combineReducers } from 'redux'
import journalReducer from './journal-reducer'

export default combineReducers({
	journal: journalReducer
})
```

The `combineReducers` is responsible for the shape of state. State in the store is an object with keys. The value stored at each key is generated by the reducer you define at that key via `combineReducers`. 

In the example above the value set on the `journal` key is the state returned from the `journalReducer`.

https://redux.js.org/recipes/structuring-reducers/basic-reducer-structure

## React Redux

Flux is the pattern, Redux is the JS implementation of that pattern. How and why does it work with React? For this you'll use `react-redux`. This library is the glue that connects the two together. 

The `<Provider>` component is the glue between the store and your other react Components. 

Define your `<Provider>` in your top level component like App. 

```JS
const store = createStore(reducers) // create the store

function App() {
  return (
    <Provider store={store}> 
      {/* The rest of your app */}
    </Provider>
  );
}
```

Notice `<Provider>` takes store as a prop!

## In Class Challenges 

Continue the challenges from class 8. 

- Challenge 1 - Cart total
- Challenge 2 - Clear Cart button
- Challenge 3 - cart Item Component
- Challenge 4 - Remove from Cart Button
- Challenge 5 - Track count of items in cart

Invent some challenges? 

- Challenge 6 - Display a single item 
- Challenge 7 - Track most recently viewed
- Challenge 8 - ?

## After Class

- Continue tutorial project 

## Additional Resources

1. 
