# FEW 2.3 - Lesson 8

# Redux

This class will cover Redux which is an application state management tool. Application represents the data that your app manages and displays. Often it is shared across mulitple views and can be updated in complex ways. 

Redux is a JS library based on the Flux pattern that 

## Learning Objectives/Competencies

1. Define Reference and value types
2. Identify references and values in JavaScript
3. Use destructuring to create shallow copy of objects and arrays

## Redux Part 2

Redux requires some set up. YOu need to make a store and the store needs access to reducers that are used by the store to update state. 

Make a store with: 

```JS
import { createStore } from 'redux'
import reducers from './reducers'

const store = createStore(reducers)
```

Making a store requires just a couple lines of code. The store requires some reducers. You'll need to define these and import them. 

`src/reducers/index.js`
```JS
import { combineReducers } from 'redux'
import journalReducer from './journal-reducer'

export default combineReducers({
	journal: journalReducer
})
```

The `combineReducers` is responsible for the shape of state. State in the store is an object with keys. The value stored at each key is generated by the reducer you define at that key via `combineReducers`. 

In the example above the value set on the `journal` key is the state returned from the `journalReducer`.

https://redux.js.org/recipes/structuring-reducers/basic-reducer-structure

## React Redux

Flux is the pattern, Redux is the JS implementation of that pattern. How and why does it work with React? For this you'll use `react-redux`. This library is the glue that connects the two together. 

The `<Provider>` component is the glue between the store and your other react Components. 

Define your `<Provider>` in your top level component like App. 

```JS
const store = createStore(reducers) // create the store

function App() {
  return (
    <Provider store={store}> 
      {/* The rest of your app */}
    </Provider>
  );
}
```

Notice `<Provider>` takes store as a prop!

## Initial Exercise

Review Redux, take a second tour through the elements that make up the Redux system. Review and answer questions. 

- Actions 
	- Actions and Actions Creators 
- Reducers 
	- `combineReducers()` 
- Defining the store 
- `Provider` Component 
- Containers (components connected to the Redux store)
	- `mapStateToProps()`
	- `mapDispatchToProps()`

## Tutorial Project Questions 

- Write them on the board and discuss

## In Class Challenges 

Try some challenges with Redux. These build on the Counter project covered in class 7. 

- Increment all button
	- Clicking this button should increase all counters by 1
- Decrement All button
	- CLicking subtracts 1 from all counters
- Add Counter button
	- Clicking this button adds a new counter to the list with a value of 0
- Add a delete button to each counter
	- Clicking one of these buttons removes the counter it is associated with from the list

## After Class

- Continue tutorial project 

## Additional Resources

1. 
